\documentclass[english,floatsintext,man]{apa6}

\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{mathspec}
    \usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
  \else
    \usepackage{fontspec}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \newcommand{\euro}{â‚¬}
\fi
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}

% Table formatting
\usepackage{longtable, booktabs}
\usepackage{lscape}
% \usepackage[counterclockwise]{rotating}   % Landscape page setup for large tables
\usepackage{multirow}		% Table styling
\usepackage{tabularx}		% Control Column width
\usepackage[flushleft]{threeparttable}	% Allows for three part tables with a specified notes section
\usepackage{threeparttablex}            % Lets threeparttable work with longtable

% Create new environments so endfloat can handle them
% \newenvironment{ltable}
%   {\begin{landscape}\begin{center}\begin{threeparttable}}
%   {\end{threeparttable}\end{center}\end{landscape}}

\newenvironment{lltable}
  {\begin{landscape}\begin{center}\begin{ThreePartTable}}
  {\end{ThreePartTable}\end{center}\end{landscape}}




% The following enables adjusting longtable caption width to table width
% Solution found at http://golatex.de/longtable-mit-caption-so-breit-wie-die-tabelle-t15767.html
\makeatletter
\newcommand\LastLTentrywidth{1em}
\newlength\longtablewidth
\setlength{\longtablewidth}{1in}
\newcommand\getlongtablewidth{%
 \begingroup
  \ifcsname LT@\roman{LT@tables}\endcsname
  \global\longtablewidth=0pt
  \renewcommand\LT@entry[2]{\global\advance\longtablewidth by ##2\relax\gdef\LastLTentrywidth{##2}}%
  \@nameuse{LT@\roman{LT@tables}}%
  \fi
\endgroup}


  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \makeatletter
  \def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
  \def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
  \makeatother
  % Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
  % margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
  % using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
  \setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
\ifxetex
  \usepackage[setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
              unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
              xetex]{hyperref}
\else
  \usepackage[unicode=true]{hyperref}
\fi
\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
            pdfauthor={},
            pdftitle={A Quantitative Synthesis of Early Language Acquisition Using Meta-Analysis},
            colorlinks=true,
            citecolor=blue,
            urlcolor=blue,
            linkcolor=black,
            pdfborder={0 0 0}}
\urlstyle{same}  % don't use monospace font for urls

\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
%\setlength{\parskip}{0pt plus 0pt minus 0pt}

\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines

\ifxetex
  \usepackage{polyglossia}
  \setmainlanguage{}
\else
  \usepackage[english]{babel}
\fi

% Manuscript styling
\captionsetup{font=singlespacing,justification=justified}
\usepackage{csquotes}
\usepackage{upgreek}



\usepackage{tikz} % Variable definition to generate author note

% fix for \tightlist problem in pandoc 1.14
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}

% Essential manuscript parts
  \title{A Quantitative Synthesis of Early Language Acquisition Using
Meta-Analysis}

  \shorttitle{A Quantitative Synthesis}


  \author{Anonymized*\textsuperscript{1}}

  \def\affdep{{"", "", "", "", "", "", ""}}%
  \def\affcity{{"", "", "", "", "", "", ""}}%

  \affiliation{
    \vspace{0.5cm}
          \textsuperscript{1} Affiliation}

 % If no author_note is defined give only author information if available
      \newcounter{author}
                                                                                                                    
  \note{\(^*\)To whom correspondence should be addressed}

  \abstract{To acquire a language, children must learn a range of skills, from the
sounds of their language to the meanings of words. These skills are
typically studied in isolation in separate research programs, but a
growing body of evidence points to interdependencies across skills in
the acquisition process. Here, we suggest that the meta-analytic method
can support the process of building systems-level theories, as well as
provide a tool for detecting bias in a literature. We present
meta-analyses of 12 phenomena in language acquisition with over 700
effect sizes. We find that the language acquisition literature overall
has a high degree of evidential value. We then present a quantitative
synthesis of language acquisition phenomena that is consistent with
interactivity in skills across the system.}
  \keywords{developmental psychology, language acquisition, quantitative theories,
meta-analysis \\

    \indent Word count: 4784
  }




  \usepackage{setspace}
  \usepackage{float}
  \usepackage{graphicx}
  \AtBeginEnvironment{tabular}{\singlespacing}
  \usepackage{pbox}

\usepackage{amsthm}
\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}
\newtheorem{proposition}{Proposition}
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}
\theoremstyle{remark}
\newtheorem*{remark}{Remark}
\begin{document}

\maketitle

\setcounter{secnumdepth}{0}



\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}

Children beginning to acquire a language must learn its sounds, its word
forms, and their meanings, and a number of other component skills of
language understanding and use. A synthetic theory that explains the
inputs, mechanisms, and timeline of this process is an aspirational goal
for the field of early language learning. One important aspect of such a
theory is an account of how the acquisition of individual skills depends
on others. For example, to what extent must the sounds of a language be
mastered prior to learning word meanings? Although a huge body of
research addresses individual aspects of early language learning (see
e.g., Kuhl, 2004 for review), only a small amount of work addresses the
question of relationships between different skills (e.g., Feldman,
Myers, White, Griffiths, \& Morgan, 2013; Johnson, Demuth, Jones, \&
Black, 2010; Shukla, White, \& Aslin, 2011). Yet if meaningful
relationships exist, they should play a central role in our theories.

The effort to build synthetic theories is further complicated by the
fact that there is often uncertainty about the developmental trajectory
of individual skills. Developmental trajectories are typically
communicated via verbal (often categorical) summaries of a set of
variable experimental findings (e.g., \enquote{by eight months, infants
can segment words from fluent speech}). In the case of contradictory
findings, theorists may have uncertainty about which experimental
findings can be used to constrain the theory, and often must resort to
verbal discounting of one finding or the other based on methodological
or theoretical factors. Resolving this issue requires a method for
synthesizing findings in a more systematic and principled fashion.

We suggest that a solution to both of these challenges---building
integrative whole-system theories and evaluating evidential strength in
a field of scientific research---is to describe experimental findings in
quantitative, rather than qualitative, terms. Quantitative descriptions
allow for the use of quantitative methods for aggregating experimental
findings in order to evaluate evidential strength. In addition,
describing experimental findings as quantitative estimates provides a
common language for comparing across phenomena, and a way to make more
precise predictions. In this paper, we consider the domain of language
acquisition and demonstrate how the quantitative tools of meta-analysis
can support theory building in psychological research.

Meta-analysis is a quantitative method for aggregating across
experimental findings (Glass, 1976; Hedges \& Olkin, 2014). The
fundamental unit of meta-analysis is the \emph{effect size}: a
scale-free, quantitative measure of \enquote{success} in a phenomenon.
Importantly, an effect size provides an estimate of the size of an
effect, as well as a measure of uncertainty around this point estimate.
With this quantitative measure, we can apply the same reasoning we use
to aggregate noisy measurements over participants in a single study: By
assuming each study, rather than participant, is sampled from a
population, we can appeal to a statistical framework to combine
estimates of the effect size for a given phenomenon. While literature
reviews can also function to combine findings across papers,
meta-analytic methods are likely to be less biased than qualitative
methods for aggregating even the smallest sample of studies (Valentine,
Pigott, \& Rothstein, 2010).

Meta-analytic methods can support theory building in several ways.
First, they provide a way to evaluate which effects in a literature are
most likely to be robust: that is, how consistently an effect is found
and the extent to which publication bias and other questionable research
practices are present in the literature. This analysis in turn informs
which effects should constrain the theory of a phenomenon. Having a
method for determining the robustness of an effect is particularly
important in light of recent evidence that an effect observed in one
study may be unlikely to replicate in another (Ebersole et al., 2016;
Open Science Collaboration, 2012, 2015). Failed replications are
difficult to interpret, however, because they may result from a wide
variety of causes, including an initial false positive, a subsequent
false negative, or differences between initial and replication studies,
such that making causal attributions in a situation with two conflicting
studies is often difficult (Anderson et al., 2016; Gilbert, King,
Pettigrew, \& Wilson, 2016). By aggregating evidence across studies and
assuming that there is some variability in true effect size from study
to study, meta-analytic methods can provide a more veridical description
of the empirical landscape, which in turn leads to better
theory-building.

Second, meta-analysis supports theory building by providing higher
fidelity descriptions of phenomena. Given an effect size estimate,
meta-analytic methods provide a method for quantifying the amount
variability around this point estimate. Furthermore, the quantitative
framework allows researchers to measure potential moderators in effect
size. This ability is crucial for developmental phenomena because
building a theory requires a precise description of changes in effect
size across development. Individual papers typically describe an effect
size for 1-2 age groups, but the ultimate goal for the theorist is to
detect a moderator---age---in this effect. Given that moderators
typically require more power to detect than main effects (Button et al.,
2013), it may be quite difficult to estimate effect size from individual
papers. By aggregating across papers using meta-analytic methods,
however, we may be better able to detect these changes, leading to more
precise description of the empirical phenomena.

Finally, effect size estimates provide a common language for comparing
across phenomena, which facilitates building system-level theories of
phenomena. In the current work, this common language allows us to
consider the relationship between different phenomena in the language
acquisition domain (\enquote{meta-meta-analysis}). Through
cross-phenomenon comparisons, we can understand not only the trajectory
of a particular phenomenon, such as word learning, but also how the
trajectory of each phenomenon might relate to other skills, such as
sound learning, gaze following, and many others. This more holistic
description of the empirical landscape can inform theories about the
extent to which there is interdependence between the acquisition of
different linguistic skills.

Although the meta-analytic-driven method of theory building can be
applied to any literature, the method is particularly useful in the case
of language acquisition research. One reason is that developmental
studies may be uniquely vulnerable to false findings because collecting
data from children is expensive, and thus sample sizes are often small
and studies are underpowered. In addition, the high cost and practical
difficulties associated with collecting large developmental datasets
means that replications are relatively rare in the field. Meta-analysis
provides a method for addressing these issues by harnessing existing
data to estimate effect sizes and developmental trends.

We take as our ultimate goal a broad theory of language acquisition that
can explain and predict the range of linguistic skills a child acquires.
As a first step toward this end, we collected a dataset of effect sizes
in the language acquisition literature across 12 phenomena (Metalab;
\url{http://metalab.stanford.edu}; see Table 1 for description of
phenomena). We use this dataset to demonstrate how meta-analysis
supports building theory in two ways. We first use meta-analytic
techniques to evaluate the evidential value of the empirical landscape
in language acquisition research. We find broadly that this literature
has strong evidential value, and thus that the effects reported in the
literature should constrain our theorizing of language acquisition. We
then turn toward the task of synthesizing these findings across
phenomena and offer a preliminary, quantitative synthesis.

\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5}

\begin{table}[h!]
    \footnotesize
    \begin{tabular}{lp{4cm} p{5cm}r}
        \toprule
        \textbf{Level} & \textbf{Phenomenon} & \textbf{Description} & \textbf{N papers (conditions)} \\
        \midrule
        
        Prosody       & IDS  preference  \newline  {\scriptsize (Dunst, Gorman, \& Hamby, 2012)} & 
                    {\scriptsize  Looking times as a function of whether infant-directed vs. adult-directed speech is presented as stimulation.} & 16 
                      (49) \\
        Sounds        & Phonotactic learning  \newline {\scriptsize (Cristia, 2017)} & 
                    {\scriptsize  Infants' ability to learn phonotactic generalizations from a short exposure.} & 15 
                      (47) \\
        ~             & Vowel discrimination (native) \newline {\scriptsize (Tsuji \& Cristia, 2014)} & 
                      {\scriptsize  Discrimination of native-language vowels, including results from a variety of methods.} & 30 
                      (118)   \\ 
        ~             & Vowel discrimination (non-native) \newline {\scriptsize (Tsuji \& Cristia, 2014)} & 
                      {\scriptsize  Discrimination of non-native vowels, including results from a variety of methods.} & 16 
                      (49)  \\
        ~             & Statistical sound learning  \newline {\scriptsize (Cristia, 2017)} & 
                      {\scriptsize  Infants' ability to learn sound categories from their acoustic distribution.} & 11 
                      (19)  \\                         
        ~             & Word segmentation \newline {\scriptsize  (Bergmann \& Cristia, 2015) } & 
                      {\scriptsize  Recognition of familiarized words from running, natural speech using behavioral methods.} & 68 
                      (285)  \\                     
     Words          & Mutual exclusivity \newline {\scriptsize (Lewis \& Frank, in prep.)} & 
                      {\scriptsize  Bias to assume that a novel word refers to a novel object in forced-choice paradigms.} & 20 
                      (60)  \\  
        ~             & Sound Symbolism \newline {\scriptsize (Lammertink et al., 2016)} &
                  {\scriptsize  Bias to assume a non-arbitrary relationship between form and meaning ("bouba-kiki effect") in forced-choice paradigms.} & 11 
                      (44)  \\  
        ~             & Concept-label advantage   \newline {\scriptsize (Lewis \& Long, unpublished)} &    
                      {\scriptsize  Infants' categorization judgments in the presence of labels.} & 14 
                      (49)  \\                   
        ~             & Online word recognition \newline {\scriptsize (Frank, Lewis, \& MacDonald, 2016)} &                               {\scriptsize  Online word recognition of familiar words using two-alternative forced choice preferential looking.} & 6 
                      (14)  \\ \\
 Communication    & Gaze following   \newline {\scriptsize  (Frank, Lewis, \& MacDonald, 2016)}       &                               {\scriptsize  Gaze following using standard multi-alternative forced-choice paradigms.} & 12 
                      (33)  \\   \\
      ~             & Pointing and vocabulary  \newline {\scriptsize (Colonnesi et al., 2010)} & 
                      {\scriptsize  Concurrent correlations between pointing and vocabulary.} & 12 
                      (12)  \\
        \bottomrule
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{Overview of meta-analyses in dataset.}
\end{table}

\section{The evidential value of the
field}\label{the-evidential-value-of-the-field}

To assess the evidential value of language acquisition research, we
conducted several diagnostic analyses: Meta-analytic estimates of effect
size, fail-safe-Ns (Orwin, 1983), funnel plots, and p-curves (Simonsohn,
Nelson, \& Simmons, 2014b, 2014a; Simonsohn, Simmons, \& Nelson, 2015).
These analytical approaches each have limitations, but taken together,
they provide converging evidence about whether an effect is likely to
exist, and the extent to which publication bias and other questionable
research practices are present in the literature. Overall, we find most
phenomena in the language acquisition literature have evidential value,
and can therefore provide the basis for theoretical development. We also
find evidence for some bias, as well as evidence that one experimental
paradigm---phonotactic learning---leads to null or near-null effects.

\subsection{Meta-Analytic Effect Size}\label{meta-analytic-effect-size}

To estimate the overall effect size of a literature, effect sizes are
pooled across papers to obtain a single meta-analytic estimate. This
meta-analytic effect-size can be thought of as the \enquote{best
estimate} of the effect size for a phenomenon given all the available
data in the literature. Table 2, column 2 presents meta-analytic effect
size estimates for each of our phenomena. We find evidence for a
non-zero effect size in 11 out of 12 of the phenomena in our dataset. In
the case of phonotactic learning, however, we find that the
meta-analytic effect size estimate does not differ from zero, indicating
that this literature does not describe robust effects (as first reported
in Cristia, 2017).

We next turn to methods of assessing evidential value that describe the
degree to which a literature has evidential value, and thus the degree
to which it should constrain our theory building. In the following three
analyses---fail-safe-N, funnel plots, and p-curves---we attempt to
quantify the evidential value of these literatures.

\begin{table}[t]
\footnotesize
\begin{tabular}{lrrrr}
\toprule
\textbf{Phenomenon} & \textbf{\textit{d}} & \textbf{fail-safe-N} & \textbf{funnel skew} & \textbf{p-curve skew}\\
\midrule
IDS preference & 0.74 [0.47, 1.01] & 3507 & 1.50 & -10.40*\\
Phonotactic learning & 0.12 [-0.02, 0.25] & 45 & -1.36 & -1.52\\
Vowel discrim.\ (native) & 0.64 [0.48, 0.80] & 8866 & 10.30* & -9.96*\\
Vowel discrim.\ (non-native) & 0.89 [0.35, 1.43] & 3393 & 8.19* & -8.89*\\
Statistical sound learning & 0.29 [0.01, 0.57] & 465 & -0.13 & -2.96*\\
Word segmentation & 0.16 [0.11, 0.21] & 5326 & 2.90* & -9.40*\\
Mutual exclusivity & 0.77 [0.52, 1.03] & 6443 & 10.86* & -12.87*\\
Sound symbolism & 0.23 [0.01, 0.45] & 526 & 0.78 & -5.56*\\
Concept-label advantage & 0.38 [0.23, 0.53] & 2337 & 2.80* & -4.79*\\
Online word recognition & 1.12 [0.60, 1.65] & 1934 & 4.47* & -14.51*\\
Gaze following & 1.06 [0.71, 1.42] & 4277 & 6.11* & -18.66*\\
Pointing and vocabulary & 0.98 [0.62, 1.34] & 1617 & 1.25 & -6.33*\\
\bottomrule
\end{tabular}
\caption{Summary of replicability analyses. \textit{d} = Effect size (Cohen's {\it d}) estimated from a random-effect model; fail-safe-N = number of missing studies that would have to exist in order for the overall effect size to be {\it d} = 0; funnel skew = test of asymmetry in funnel plot using the random-effect Egger's test (Sterne \& Egger, 2005); p-curve skew = test of the right skew of the p-curve using the Stouffer method (Simonsohn, Simmons, \& Nelson, 2015). Brackets give 95\% confidence intervals and asterisks indicate {\it p} < .05.}
\end{table}

\subsection{Fail-safe-N}\label{fail-safe-n}

One approach for quantifying the reliability of a literature is to ask,
How many missing studies with null effects would have to exist in the
\enquote{file drawer} in order for the overall effect size to be zero?
This is called the \enquote{fail-safe} number of studies (Orwin, 1983).
This number provides an estimate of the size and variance of an effect
using the intuitive unit of number of studies. To calculate this effect,
we estimated the overall effect size for each phenomenon (Table 2,
column 2), and then used this value to estimate the fail-safe-N (Table
2, column 3).

Because of the large number of positive studies in many of the
meta-analyses we assessed, this analysis suggests a very large number of
studies would have to be \enquote{missing} in each literature (\(M\) =
3,228) in order for the overall effect sizes to be 0. Thus, while it is
possible that some reporting bias is present in the literature, the
overall large fail-safe-N suggests that the literature nonetheless
likely describes robust effects.

This analysis provides a quantitative estimate of the size of an effect
in an intuitive unit, but it does not assess analytical or publication
bias (Scargle, 2000). Importantly, if experimenters are selectively
reporting results, then the number and magnitude of observed true
effects in the literature may be greatly inflated. In the next analysis,
we assess the presence of bias through funnel plots.

\subsection{Funnel Plots}\label{funnel-plots}

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics{metalab_synthesis_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-2-1.pdf}
\caption{\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-2}Funnel plots for each meta-analysis.
Each effect size estimate is represented by a point, and the mean effect
size is shown as a red dashed line. The grey dashed line shows an effect
size of zero. The funnel corresponds to a 95\% CI around this mean (with
zero at the top). In the absence of true heterogeneity in effect sizes
(no moderators) and bias, we should expect all points to be equally
distributed within the funnel.}
\end{figure}

Funnel plots provide a visual method for evaluating whether variability
in effect sizes is due only to differences in sample size. A funnel plot
shows effect sizes versus a metric of sample size, standard error. If
there is no bias in a literature, we should expect studies to be
randomly sampled around the mean, with more variability for less precise
studies.

Figure 1 presents funnel plots for each of our 12 meta-analyses. These
plots show evidence of asymmetry (bias) for many of our phenomena (Table
2, column 4). An important limitation of this method, however, is that
it is difficult to determine the source of this bias. One possibility is
that this asymmetry reflects true heterogeneity in phenomena affecting
both effect size and precision (e.g., a test of older infants may
require fewer participants because their performance is more stable and
yields a larger
effect).\footnote{The role of moderators such as age can be interactively explored on the Metalab website (http://metalab.stanford.edu).}
P-curve analyses provide one method for addressing this issue, which we
turn to next.

\subsection{P-curves}\label{p-curves}

\begin{figure}[t!]
\centering
\includegraphics{metalab_synthesis_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-3-1.pdf}
\caption{\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-3}P-curve for each meta-analysis
(Simonsohn, Nelson, \& Simmons, 2014). In the absence of p-hacking, we
should expect the observed p-curve (blue) to be right-skewed (more small
values). The red dashed line shows the expected distribution of p-values
when the effect is non-existent (the null is true). The green dashed
line shows the expected distribution if the effect is real, but studies
only have 33\% power. Grey ribbons show 95\% confidence intervals
estimated from a multinomial distribution. Text on each plot shows the
number of p-values for each dataset that are less than .05 and thus are
represented in each p-curve (\enquote{sig. ps}), relative to the total
number of conditions for that phenomenon. Each plot also shows the
proportion of p-values that were derived from test statistics reported
in the paper (\enquote{prop. test stat.}); all others were derived by
conducting analyses on the descriptive statistics or transforming
reported effect sizes.}
\end{figure}


A p-curve is the distribution of p-values for the statistical test of
the main hypothesis across a literature (Simonsohn et al., 2014b, 2014a,
2015). Critically, if there is a robust effect in the literature, the
shape of the p-curve should reflect this. In particular, we should
expect the p-curve to be right-skewed with more small values (e.g., .01)
than large values (e.g., .04). An important property of this analysis is
that we should expect this skew independent of any true heterogeneity in
the data, such as age. Evidence that the curve is in fact right-skewed
would suggest that the literature is not biased, and that it provides
evidential value for theory building.


P-values for each condition were calculated based on the reported test
statistic. However, test statistics were not available for many
conditions, either because they were not reported or because they were
not coded. To remedy this, we also calculated p-values indirectly based
on descriptive statistics (means and standard deviations; see SI for
details).


Figure 2 shows p-curves for each of our 12 meta-analyses. All p-curves
show evidence of right skew, except for phonotactic learning (Table 2,
column 5). This pattern did not differ when only reported
test-statistics were used to calculate p-curves (see SI).

In sum, then, meta-analytic methods, along with our dataset of effect
sizes, provide an opportunity to assess the replicability of the field
of language acquisition. Across a range of analyses, we find that this
literature shows some evidence for bias, but overall, it is quite
robust.

\section{Quantitative Synthesis and Theory
Development}\label{quantitative-synthesis-and-theory-development}

Next, we turn to how these data can be used to constrain and develop
theories of language acquisition.

Meta-analytic methods provide a precise, quantitative description of the
developmental trajectory of individual phenomena. Figure 3 presents the
developmental trajectories of the phenomena in our dataset at each level
in the linguistic hierarchy. By describing how effect sizes change as a
function of age, we can begin to understand what factors might moderate
the trajectory, such as aspects of a child's experience or maturation.
For example, the meta-analysis on mutual exclusivity (the bias for
children to select a novel object, given a novel word; Markman \&
Wachtel, 1988) suggests a steep developmental trajectory of this skill.
We then can use these data to build quantitative models to understand
how aspects of experience (e.g., vocabulary development) or maturational
constraints may be related to this trajectory (e.g., Frank, Goodman, \&
Tenenbaum, 2009; McMurray, Horst, \& Samuelson, 2012).

In addition, meta-analytic methods provide an approach for synthesizing
across different linguistic skills via the common metric of effect
sizes. The ultimate goal is to use meta-analytic data to build a single,
quantitative model of the language acquisition system, much like those
developed for individual language acquisition phenomena, like word
learning. Developing a single quantitative model is a lofty goal,
however, and will likely require much more precise description of the
phenomena than is available in our dataset. Nevertheless, we can use our
data to distinguish between broad classes of theories about the
interdependency of skills.

\begin{figure}[t!]
\centering
\includegraphics{figs/fig3_lab.pdf}
\caption{\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-5}Method-residualized effect size plotted
as a function of age across the 11 meta-analyses in our dataset shown to
have evidential value (excluding phonotactic learning). Lines show
logarithmic model fits. Each point corresponds to a condition, with the
size of the point indicating the number of participants.}
\end{figure}

We first consider two broad theories of learning dependencies that have
been articulated in a number of forms, and which we will separate for
the purposes of exposition. At one extreme, there is the stage-like
theory which posits that linguistic skills are acquired in a strictly
sequential manner, beginning with skills at the lowest level of the
linguistic hierarchy and working their way up. Under this theory, once a
skill is mastered, and only then, can it be used to support the
acquisition of skills higher in the linguistic hierarchy. In this way, a
child sequentially acquires the skills of language,
\enquote{bootstrapping} from existing knowledge at lower levels to new
knowledge at higher levels. Consistent with this view, there is evidence
that the general prosodic and rhythmic characteristics of language are
accessible to infants early in development (Ramus, Hauser, Miller,
Morris, \& Mehler, 2000), and that these characteristics support the
acquisition of sound categories (e.g., Werker et al., 2007), word
boundaries (e.g., Jusczyk, Houston, \& Newsome, 1999), grammatical
categories (e.g., Shi, Werker, \& Morgan, 1999), and even word learning
(e.g., Shukla et al., 2011).

\begin{figure}[t!]
\centering
\includegraphics{figs/fig4_lab.pdf}
\caption{\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-7}The left two panels show the
developmental trajectories predicted under different meta-theories of
language acquisition. The stage-like theory predicts that a child will
not begin learning the next skill in the linguistic hierarchy until the
previous skill has been mastered. The interactive theory predicts that
multiple skills may be simultaneously acquired. The third panel shows
other possible developmental trajectories (decreasing, linear, and
non-monotonic). The fourth panel shows the observed meta-analytic data.
Effect size is plotted as a function of age from 0-3 years, across 11
different phenomena (excluding phonotactic learning). Model fits are the
same as in Figure 3. These developmental curves suggest there is
interactivity across language skills, rather than stage-like learning of
the linguistic hierarchy. GF: Gaze following; IDS: IDS preference; LA:
Concept -label advantage; ME: Mutual exclusivity; VD-(N)N: Vowel
discrimination (non-)native; PV: Pointing-vocabulary correlations; SS:
Sound symbolism; WR: Word recognition; SSL: Statistical sound category
learning.}
\end{figure}

Alternatively, multiple skills may be learned simultaneously across the
system regardless of their place in the hierarchy, and potentially with
top-down effects. There is evidence that higher-level skills like word
learning may be acquired relatively early in development, likely before
phonological learning has been completed (e.g., Bergelson \& Swingley,
2012; Tincoff \& Jusczyk, 1999). The possibility that higher levels may
be learned concurrently or even before lower levels is consistent with
predictions of a class of hierarchical Bayesian models that suggest that
more abstract knowledge may be acquired quickly, before lower-level
information, and may in turn support the acquisition of lower
information (``blessing of abstraction,'' Goodman, Ullman, \& Tenenbaum,
2011). There is evidence for this proposal from work that suggests word
learning supports the acquisition of lower-level information like
phonemes (Feldman et al., 2013).

These two theories make different predictions about the relative
trajectories of skills across development. Within the meta-analytic
framework, we can represent these different trajectories schematically
by plotting the effect sizes for different skills across development. In
particular, the bottom-up theory predicts serial acquisition of skills
(Figure 4; left) while the interactive theory predicts simultaneous
acquisition (left center). We can also specify many other possible
trajectories by varying the functional form and parameters of the model.
Figure 4 (\enquote{Ad hoc}; right center) shows several other possible
trajectories. For example, a skill might have a non-monotonic
trajectory, increasing with age, and then decreasing. By specifying the
shape of these developmental trajectories and the age at which
acquisition begins, we can consider many patterns of developmental
trajectories, and how these different patterns, in turn, constrain our
broad theories of development.

Our data allow us to begin to differentiate between this space of
theories. Figure 4 (right) presents a synthetic representation of the
developmental trajectories of the skills in our dataset with literatures
shown to have evidential value (all but phonotactic learning). We find
strong evidence for the simultaneous acquisition of skills---children
begin learning even high-level skills, like the meanings of words, early
in development, and even low-level skills like sound categories show a
protracted period of development. This pattern is less consistent with
stage-like theories than with parallel or top-down theories of language
acquisition. Notably, however, while there is clearly a degree of
simultaneous acquisition across skills, higher-level
skills---gaze-following, word recognition, and mutual
exclusivity---appear to show a more stage-like pattern of development.
In future research, we can use this approach to distinguish between a
larger, more nuanced space of meta-theories and, ultimately, refine our
way towards a single quantitative theory of language acquisition.

\section{Discussion}\label{discussion}

Building a theory of a complex psychological phenomenon requires making
good inductive inferences from the available data. Meta-analysis can
support this process by providing a toolkit for quantitative description
of individual behaviors and their relationship to important moderators
(e.g., age, in our case). Here, we apply the meta-analytic toolkit to
the domain of language acquisition---a domain where there are concerns
of replicability, and where high-fidelity data are needed for theory
building. We find that the existing literature in this domain describes
mostly robust phenomena and thus could form the basis of theory
development. We then aggregate across phenomena to offer the first
quantitative synthesis of the field. We find evidence that linguistic
skills are acquired simultaneously rather than in a stage-like fashion.

In this paper, we focused on theoretical motivations for building
meta-analysis, but naturally, there are many other practical reasons for
conducting a quantitative synthesis. For example, when planning an
experiment, an estimate of the size of an effect on the basis of prior
literature can inform the sample size needed to achieve a desired level
of power. Meta-analytic estimates of effect sizes can also aid in design
choices: If a certain paradigm or measure tends to yield overall larger
effect sizes than another, the strategic researcher might select this
paradigm in order to maximize the power achieved with a given sample
size. These and other advantages, illustrated with the same database
used here, are explained in Bergmann et al.~(in press).

Despite its potential, there are a number of important limitations to
the meta-analytic method as a tool for theory building in psychological
research. One challenging issue is that in many cases experimental
method (e.g., habituation, behavioral choice, etc.) and phenomenon are
confounded. This is problematic because a method with less noise than
another will produce a bigger effect size for the same phenomenon. As a
result, it is difficult to determine the extent to which a difference in
effect size between two phenomena is due to an underlying difference in
the phenomena, or merely to a difference in the way each was tested.
While method may account for some variability in our dataset, we find
that method does not have a large impact on effect size for phenomena
relative to other moderators like age (see SI). Nevertheless, covariance
between method and phenomenon, as found in our dataset and probably many
other fields of study, limits our ability to directly compare effect
sizes across phenomena.

Second, meta-analysis, like all analytical methods, requires the
researcher to make analytical decisions, and these decisions may be
subject to the biases of the researcher. We believe that a virtue of the
current approach is that we have applied the same analytical method
across all phenomena we examined, thus limiting our \enquote{degrees of
freedom} in the analysis. However, in some cases this uniform approach
to data analysis means that we are unable to take into consideration
aspects of a particular phenomenon that might be relevant. For example,
in a study using the vowel discrimination and word segmentation datasets
to adjudicate bottom-up versus top-down theories, Bergmann, Tsuji, and
Cristia (2017) concluded this was effectively studied only when
subsetting to papers that tested at least two different age groups as a
way of focusing on age differences while controlling for other possible
differences between experiments. Here, we have followed a different
route, by normalizing effect sizes across methods. We believe that the
systematic, uniform analytical approach used here is the most
appropriate for minimizing bias by the meta-analyst. Notably, this
analytical decision has consequences for interpretation: Bergmann,
Tsuji, and Cristia (2017) found a moderate decrease in effect size with
age for non-native vowel discrimination, while the current analysis
suggests a moderate increase. We thus recommend future researchers to
consider this question carefully, particularly in meta-analyses with
high heterogeneity.

While meta-analysis uniquely provides a high-level view of the empirical
landscape, we consider the meta-analytic method as synergistic with
other methodological approaches. Critically, a complete meta-theory of
language acquisition would include not just a description of the
temporal overlap of different skills, but also a theory of their causal
relationship. For example, the interactive theory suggests that skills
at higher levels \emph{support} the acquisition at lower levels, even
before skills at lower levels are mastered. In the meta-analytic
framework, this predicts that there should be simultaneous development
of skills across the language hierarchy---as we observe in the current
work. Importantly, however, this analysis is inherently correlational,
entailing that we cannot directly infer a causal relationship between
acquisition at lower levels and acquisition at higher levels. That is,
while the observed pattern is consistent with the interactive theory, it
is also possible that there is no causal relationship between skills
across the language hierarchy, merely parallel trajectories of
acquisition. For this reason, experimental work must go hand-in-hand
with meta-analysis to address causal questions.

Finally, there are a number of important limitations to the
meta-analytic method more broadly. One issue is that the method relies
on researchers conducting replications of the same study across a range
of ages and, critically, reporting these data so that they can be used
in meta-analyses. To the extent that researchers do not conduct these
studies, or report the necessary statistics in their write-ups (e.g.,
means and standard deviations), the meta-analytic method cannot be
applied. In addition, the meta-analytic method, as in the case of
qualitative forms of synthesis (e.g., literature review), is limited by
the potential presence of bias, which can come from a range of sources
including non-representative participant populations, failure to publish
null findings, and analytical degrees-of-freedom. To the extent these
biases are present in the literature, methods of synthesizing these
findings will also be biased.

In sum, understanding the psychological mechanisms underlying complex
phenomena is a difficult inferential task: The researcher must develop a
predictive and explanatory theory on the basis of limited and noisy
experimental data. Here we have focused on language acquisition as a
case study of how meta-analytic methods can be productively leveraged as
a tool for theory building. Meta-analytic methods allow the researcher
to determine whether phenomena are robust, synthesize across
contradictory findings, and ultimately, build an integrative theory
across phenomena. Moving forward, we see meta-analysis as a powerful
tool in the researcher's toolkit for developing quantitative theories to
account for complex psychological phenomena.

\section{Methods}\label{methods}

We analyzed 12 different phenomena in language acquisition. We selected
these particular phenomena because of their theoretical importance or
because a previously-published meta-analysis already existed.

To obtain estimates of effect size, we either coded or adapted others'
coding of papers reporting experimental data (see SI for details).
Within each paper, we calculated a separate effect size estimate for
each experiment and age group (we refer to each measurement separated by
age as a \enquote{condition}). In total, our sample includes estimates
from 231 papers, 779 different conditions and 14,031 participants. The
process for selecting papers from the literature differed by domain,
with some individual meta-analyses using more systematic approaches than
others (see SI for specific search strategies).

\paragraph{Data and Code Availability}\label{data-and-code-availability}

The data and code reported in this paper have been deposited in GitHub,
a web-based repository hosting service,
\url{https://github.com/langcog/metalab/}.

\paragraph{Supplementary Information}\label{supplementary-information}

This article contains supporting information online at
\url{http://rpubs.com/mll/synthesis_SI}

\newpage

\subsection{References}  \label{references}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\setlength{\parindent}{-0.5in} \setlength{\leftskip}{0.5in}
\setlength{\parskip}{8pt}

\hypertarget{ref-anderson2016response}{}
Anderson, C. J., BahnÃ­k, Å ., Barnett-Cowan, M., Bosco, F. A., Chandler,
J., Chartier, C. R., \ldots{} others. (2016). Response to comment on
``estimating the reproducibility of psychological science''.
\emph{Science}, \emph{351}(6277), 1037--1037.

\hypertarget{ref-bergelson2016}{}
Bergelson, E., \& Swingley, D. (2012). At 6--9 months, human infants
know the meanings of many common nouns. \emph{Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences}, \emph{109}(9), 3253--3258.

\hypertarget{ref-bergmann2015development}{}
Bergmann, C., \& Cristia, A. (2015). Development of infants'
segmentation of words from native speech: A meta-analytic approach.
\emph{Developmental Science}, \emph{19}(6), 901--917.

\hypertarget{ref-bergmann2017}{}
Bergmann, C., Tsuji, S., \& Cristia, A. (2017). Top-down versus
bottom-up theories of phonological acquisition: A big data approach. In
\emph{Proceedings of Interspeech 2017} (pp. 2013--2016).

\hypertarget{ref-bergmanneducational}{}
Bergmann, C., Tsuji, S., Piccinini, P., Lewis, M., Braginsky, M., Frank,
M., \& Cristia, A. (in press). Promoting replicability in developmental
research through meta-analyses: Insights from language acquisition
research. \emph{Child Development}.

\hypertarget{ref-button2013power}{}
Button, K. S., Ioannidis, J. P., Mokrysz, C., Nosek, B. A., Flint, J.,
Robinson, E. S., \& MunafÃ², M. R. (2013). Power failure: Why small
sample size undermines the reliability of neuroscience. \emph{Nature
Reviews Neuroscience}, \emph{14}(5), 365--376.

\hypertarget{ref-colonnesi2010relation}{}
Colonnesi, C., Stams, G. J. J., Koster, I., \& Noom, M. J. (2010). The
relation between pointing and language development: A meta-analysis.
\emph{Developmental Review}, \emph{30}(4), 352--366.

\hypertarget{ref-cristia2017}{}
Cristia, A. (in press). Can infants learn phonology in the lab? A
meta-analytic answer. \emph{Cognition}.

\hypertarget{ref-dunst2012preference}{}
Dunst, C., Gorman, E., \& Hamby, D. (2012). Preference for
infant-directed speech in preverbal young children. \emph{Center for
Early Literacy Learning}, \emph{5}(1).

\hypertarget{ref-ebersole2015many}{}
Ebersole, C., Atherton, O., Belanger, A., Skulborstad, H., Adams, R.,
Allen, J., \& Nosek, B. (2016). Many Labs 3: Evaluating participant pool
quality across the academic semester via replication. \emph{Journal of
Experimental Social Psychology}, \emph{67}, 68--82.

\hypertarget{ref-feldman2013word}{}
Feldman, N. H., Myers, E. B., White, K. S., Griffiths, T. L., \& Morgan,
J. L. (2013). Word-level information influences phonetic learning in
adults and infants. \emph{Cognition}, \emph{127}(3), 427--438.

\hypertarget{ref-frank2009using}{}
Frank, M., Goodman, N. D., \& Tenenbaum, J. B. (2009). Using speakers'
referential intentions to model early cross-situational word learning.
\emph{Psychological Science}, \emph{20}(5), 578--585.

\hypertarget{ref-frank2016performance}{}
Frank, M., Lewis, M., \& MacDonald, K. (2016). A performance model for
early word learning. In \emph{Proceedings of the 38th Annual Conference
of the Cognitive Science Society}.

\hypertarget{ref-Gilbert1037}{}
Gilbert, D. T., King, G., Pettigrew, S., \& Wilson, T. D. (2016).
Comment on Estimating the reproducibility of psychological science.
\emph{Science}, \emph{351}(6277), 1037--1037.
doi:\href{https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aad7243}{10.1126/science.aad7243}

\hypertarget{ref-glass1976primary}{}
Glass, G. V. (1976). Primary, secondary, and meta-analysis of research.
\emph{Educational Researcher}, \emph{5}(10), 3--8.

\hypertarget{ref-goodman2011learning}{}
Goodman, N. D., Ullman, T. D., \& Tenenbaum, J. B. (2011). Learning a
theory of causality. \emph{Psychological Review}, \emph{118}(1), 110.

\hypertarget{ref-hedges2014statistical}{}
Hedges, L. V., \& Olkin, I. (2014). \emph{Statistical methods for
meta-analysis}. Academic press.

\hypertarget{ref-johnson2010synergies}{}
Johnson, M., Demuth, K., Jones, B., \& Black, M. J. (2010). Synergies in
learning words and their referents. In \emph{Advances in neural
information processing systems} (pp. 1018--1026).

\hypertarget{ref-jusczyk1999beginnings}{}
Jusczyk, P. W., Houston, D. M., \& Newsome, M. (1999). The beginnings of
word segmentation in english-learning infants. \emph{Cognitive
Psychology}, \emph{39}(3), 159--207.

\hypertarget{ref-kuhl2004early}{}
Kuhl, P. K. (2004). Early language acquisition: Cracking the speech
code. \emph{Nature Reviews Neuroscience}, \emph{5}(11), 831--843.

\hypertarget{ref-lammertink2016}{}
Lammertink, I., Fort, M., Peperkamp, S., Fikkert, P., Guevara-Rukoz, A.,
\& Tsuji, S. (2016). SymBuki: A meta-analysis on the sound-symbolic
bouba-kiki effect in infants and toddlers. Poster presented at the XXI
Biennial International Congress of Infant Studies, New Orleans, USA.

\hypertarget{ref-lfprep}{}
Lewis, M. L., \& Frank, M. (in prep). Mutual exclusivity: A
meta-analysis.

\hypertarget{ref-lewisunpublished}{}
Lewis, M., \& Long, B. (unpublished). Meta-analysis of the concept-label
advantage.

\hypertarget{ref-markman1988}{}
Markman, E., \& Wachtel, G. (1988). Children's use of mutual exclusivity
to constrain the meanings of words. \emph{Cognitive Psychology},
\emph{20}(2), 121--157.

\hypertarget{ref-mcmurray2012word}{}
McMurray, B., Horst, J. S., \& Samuelson, L. K. (2012). Word learning
emerges from the interaction of online referent selection and slow
associative learning. \emph{Psychological Review}, \emph{119}(4), 831.

\hypertarget{ref-open2012open}{}
Open Science Collaboration. (2012). An open, large-scale, collaborative
effort to estimate the reproducibility of psychological science.
\emph{Perspectives on Psychological Science}, \emph{7}(6), 657--660.

\hypertarget{ref-open2015estimating}{}
Open Science Collaboration. (2015). Estimating the reproducibility of
psychological science. \emph{Science}, \emph{349}(6251), aac4716.

\hypertarget{ref-orwin1983fail}{}
Orwin, R. G. (1983). A fail-safe N for effect size in meta-analysis.
\emph{Journal of Educational Statistics}, 157--159.

\hypertarget{ref-ramus2000language}{}
Ramus, F., Hauser, M. D., Miller, C., Morris, D., \& Mehler, J. (2000).
Language discrimination by human newborns and by cotton-top tamarin
monkeys. \emph{Science}, \emph{288}(5464), 349--351.

\hypertarget{ref-scargle1999publication}{}
Scargle, J. D. (2000). Publication bias: The ``file-drawer problem'' in
scientific inference. \emph{Journal of Scientific Exploration},
\emph{14}(1), 91--106.

\hypertarget{ref-shi1999newborn}{}
Shi, R., Werker, J. F., \& Morgan, J. L. (1999). Newborn infants'
sensitivity to perceptual cues to lexical and grammatical words.
\emph{Cognition}, \emph{72}(2), B11--B21.

\hypertarget{ref-shukla2011prosody}{}
Shukla, M., White, K. S., \& Aslin, R. N. (2011). Prosody guides the
rapid mapping of auditory word forms onto visual objects in 6-mo-old
infants. \emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences},
\emph{108}(15), 6038--6043.

\hypertarget{ref-simonsohn2014power}{}
Simonsohn, Nelson, L. D., \& Simmons, J. P. (2014a). P-curve and effect
size correcting for publication bias using only significant results.
\emph{Perspectives on Psychological Science}, \emph{9}(6), 666--681.

\hypertarget{ref-simonsohn2014p}{}
Simonsohn, Nelson, L. D., \& Simmons, J. P. (2014b). P-curve: A key to
the file-drawer. \emph{Journal of Experimental Psychology: General},
\emph{143}(2), 534.

\hypertarget{ref-simonsohn2015better}{}
Simonsohn, Simmons, J. P., \& Nelson, L. D. (2015). Better p-curves.
\emph{Journal of Experimental Psychology: General}, \emph{144}(6),
1146--52.

\hypertarget{ref-sterne2005regression}{}
Sterne, J. A., \& Egger, M. (2005). Regression methods to detect
publication and other bias in meta-analysis. \emph{Publication Bias in
Meta-Analysis: Prevention, Assessment, and Adjustments}, 99--110.

\hypertarget{ref-tincoff1999some}{}
Tincoff, R., \& Jusczyk, P. W. (1999). Some beginnings of word
comprehension in 6-month-olds. \emph{Psychological Science},
\emph{10}(2), 172--175.

\hypertarget{ref-valentine2010many}{}
Valentine, J. C., Pigott, T. D., \& Rothstein, H. R. (2010). How many
studies do you need? A primer on statistical power for meta-analysis.
\emph{Journal of Educational and Behavioral Statistics}, \emph{35}(2),
215--247.

\hypertarget{ref-werker2007infant}{}
Werker, J. F., Pons, F., Dietrich, C., Kajikawa, S., Fais, L., \& Amano,
S. (2007). Infant-directed speech supports phonetic category learning in
English and Japanese. \emph{Cognition}, \emph{103}(1), 147--162.






\end{document}
